doc/index.adoc, before:

= ljuv Documentation
:toc: left
:toclevels: 2
:sectanchors:

https://github.com/ImagicTheCat/ljuv[*ljuv*] is a Lua library built on https://libuv.org/[libuv] and https://luajit.org/[LuaJIT] 2.1 (HEAD).

A main event loop combined with coroutines can be a way to nicely parallelize and synchronize various operations, which is what computing is mostly about.

Not only a binding to *libuv*, the library aims to expose different levels of abstraction and address problems like multi-threading.

NOTE: When the documentation is very succinct because it is just a layer above the *libuv* API, refer to the *libuv* documentation.

== Error handling

=== Callbacks

Errors from loop callbacks are properly handled; they will be deferred, queued and propagated by <<loop-run>> as soon as possible (with a call to <<loop-stop>>). After an error, the state of the loop is still valid and <<loop-run>> can be called again to propagate the next error or to continue execution.

NOTE: In most cases catching errors from <<loop-run>>, the root of the application, is not meaningful and should probably be done at the callback level instead.

== Resources management

=== Loop and handles

Handles are created and owned by a loop, they are not garbage collected on their own. To release an handle and its resources, <<handle-close>> must be called. A loop will close its handles when garbage collected.

WARNING: Due to the design of *ljuv*, if an handle callback is an anchor for the associated loop, e.g. it has a reference to it directly or indirectly by its upvalues, the loop will not be garbage collected until the VM is closed. For most applications it doesn't matter because they will use the default global loop as their main event loop.

Although *ljuv* uses *cdata* objects, care is taken to preserve their identity in the API. When an handle is passed to a callback it will be the same *cdata* object created by the loop. That *cdata* object identifies the handle and can be used as a key.

=== Shared objects

Objects like *channels* or *shared flags* are properly managed from multiple threads by the use of reference counting (if correctly exported/imported).

An *async* handle exported to another thread will act more as a weak reference: the validity of the handle is checked before attempting an operation.

== String buffers

*ljuv* uses LuaJIT's string buffers to pass data between threads. Look at the LuaJIT documentation to know about what kind of data is supported.

== API Reference

include::api-base.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::api-thread.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::api-loop.adoc[leveloffset=+2]

Commit message:

Add doc about lower level modules.

doc/index.adoc, after:

= ljuv Documentation
:toc: left
:toclevels: 2
:sectanchors:

https://github.com/ImagicTheCat/ljuv[*ljuv*] is a Lua library built on https://libuv.org/[libuv] and https://luajit.org/[LuaJIT] 2.1 (HEAD).

A main event loop combined with coroutines can be a way to nicely parallelize and synchronize various operations, which is what computing is mostly about.

Not only a binding to *libuv*, the library aims to expose different levels of abstraction and address problems like multi-threading.

NOTE: When the documentation is very succinct because it is just a layer above the *libuv* API, refer to the *libuv* documentation.

== Levels of abstraction

If the regular API is too high level, e.g. poor performance or some features are missing, the *ljuv* submodules may be directly used:

`ljuv.libuv`:: The FFI binding and library namespace of *libuv* (not exhaustive).
`ljuv.wrapper`:: The *ljuv* C API, which is used to implement additional features like thread and channel.

== Error handling

=== Callbacks

Errors from loop callbacks are properly handled; they will be deferred, queued and propagated by <<loop-run>> as soon as possible (with a call to <<loop-stop>>). After an error, the state of the loop is still valid and <<loop-run>> can be called again to propagate the next error or to continue execution.

NOTE: In most cases catching errors from <<loop-run>>, the root of the application, is not meaningful and should probably be done at the callback level instead.

== Resources management

=== Loop and handles

Handles are created and owned by a loop, they are not garbage collected on their own. To release an handle and its resources, <<handle-close>> must be called. A loop will close its handles when garbage collected.

WARNING: Due to the design of *ljuv*, if an handle callback is an anchor for the associated loop, e.g. it has a reference to it directly or indirectly by its upvalues, the loop will not be garbage collected until the VM is closed. For most applications it doesn't matter because they will use the default global loop as their main event loop.

Although *ljuv* uses *cdata* objects, care is taken to preserve their identity in the API. When an handle is passed to a callback it will be the same *cdata* object created by the loop. That *cdata* object identifies the handle and can be used as a key.

=== Shared objects

Objects like *channels* or *shared flags* are properly managed from multiple threads by the use of reference counting (if correctly exported/imported).

An *async* handle exported to another thread will act more as a weak reference: the validity of the handle is checked before attempting an operation.

== String buffers

*ljuv* uses LuaJIT's string buffers to pass data between threads. Look at the LuaJIT documentation to know about what kind of data is supported.

== API Reference

include::api-base.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::api-thread.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::api-loop.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
