doc/modules/ROOT/pages/api-thread.adoc, before:

= Multi-threading

== Shared flag

=== ljuv.new_shared_flag(value [, final_value])

Create a shared flag.

value:: integer (C `int`)
final_value:: same as _value_, but set at finalization

=== shared_flag:set(value)

Set the shared flag's value.

value:: integer (C `int`)

=== shared_flag:get()

Returns the shared flag's value.

== Channel

=== ljuv.new_channel()

Create a channel.

=== channel:push(...)

Push a message.

...:: payload arguments (encoded by String Buffers)

=== channel:pull()

Pull a message (blocking).

Returns payload arguments.

=== channel:try_pull()

Pull a message (non-blocking).

Returns a boolean status, *true* followed by the payload arguments if a message has been pulled, or *false* otherwise.

=== channel:count()

Count the number of pending messages.

== Object transfer

=== ljuv.export(object [, soft])

Export an object to be passed to another thread.

.Exportables
channel::
shared flag::
async handle:: imported as a function which safely calls xref:api-handles.adoc#async-send[async:send]

WARNING: The returned payload must be imported exactly once to prevent memory leak and invalid memory accesses.

.Parameters
object::  object to export
soft:: truthy to not throw errors on invalid object (returns nothing)

Returns a payload encodable by String Buffers.

=== ljuv.import(payload [, soft])

Import an object payload.

payload::
soft:: truthy to not throw errors on invalid payload (returns nothing)

Returns imported object.

== Thread abstraction

=== loop:thread(entry, callback, ...)

Create a new system-thread and run a Lua function asynchronously.

The created Lua state inherits from the current values of `package.path` and `package.cpath`.

CAUTION: The loop will not synchronously wait on running threads if garbage collected; the application should asynchronously wait on the callback.

entry:: thread entry function, a Lua function or a string of Lua code/bytecode
+
NOTE: It uses `string.dump` to convert the Lua function to bytecode. Nothing will be done about the function's upvalues.

callback(ok, ...):: Called when terminated; common soft error handling interface: returns *ok* status followed by an error message or the function return values (encoded by String Buffers).
...:: arguments passed to the function, must be encodable by String Buffers

== Threadpool abstraction

This abstraction implements a way to distribute operations among multiple threads from the "main" thread. Each thread instantiates the interface to process the work it is given.

I.e. main thread -> split workload -> worker threads -> gather results -> main thread.

=== loop:threadpool(thread_count, interface_loader, ...)

Create a thread pool.

thread_count:: number of threads in the pool
interface_loader:: Lua function or code, plain or bytecode, which returns a map of functions (called from worker threads)
...:: interface loader arguments

WARNING: Because each thread will execute the same interface loader, be careful to not use exported shared objects as arguments.

[#threadpool:call]
=== threadpool:call(op, callback, ...)

Call an operation on the thread pool interface.

The callback can be a coroutine (will call `coroutine.resume` with the same parameters).

op:: key to an operation of the interface
callback(ok, ...):: Called on operation return, common soft error handling interface: returns *ok* status followed by an error message or the function return values (encoded by String Buffers).
...:: call arguments (encoded by String Buffers)

=== threadpool.interface[op](...)

Same as <<threadpool:call>>, but synchronously from the current coroutine. Errors are propagated.

====
[source, lua]
----
pool.interface.test(42)
----
====

=== threadpool:close()

Close the thread pool (send exit signal to all threads). Idempotent.

CAUTION: There are no mechanisms to directly wait on the termination of the threadpool, because only the application knows the context of the work it has to do. I.e. this method should be called when all work is done.

Commit message:

Add threadpool interface __exit operation.

doc/modules/ROOT/pages/api-thread.adoc, after:

= Multi-threading

== Shared flag

=== ljuv.new_shared_flag(value [, final_value])

Create a shared flag.

value:: integer (C `int`)
final_value:: same as _value_, but set at finalization

=== shared_flag:set(value)

Set the shared flag's value.

value:: integer (C `int`)

=== shared_flag:get()

Returns the shared flag's value.

== Channel

=== ljuv.new_channel()

Create a channel.

=== channel:push(...)

Push a message.

...:: payload arguments (encoded by String Buffers)

=== channel:pull()

Pull a message (blocking).

Returns payload arguments.

=== channel:try_pull()

Pull a message (non-blocking).

Returns a boolean status, *true* followed by the payload arguments if a message has been pulled, or *false* otherwise.

=== channel:count()

Count the number of pending messages.

== Object transfer

=== ljuv.export(object [, soft])

Export an object to be passed to another thread.

.Exportables
channel::
shared flag::
async handle:: imported as a function which safely calls xref:api-handles.adoc#async-send[async:send]

WARNING: The returned payload must be imported exactly once to prevent memory leak and invalid memory accesses.

.Parameters
object::  object to export
soft:: truthy to not throw errors on invalid object (returns nothing)

Returns a payload encodable by String Buffers.

=== ljuv.import(payload [, soft])

Import an object payload.

payload::
soft:: truthy to not throw errors on invalid payload (returns nothing)

Returns imported object.

== Thread abstraction

=== loop:thread(entry, callback, ...)

Create a new system-thread and run a Lua function asynchronously.

The created Lua state inherits from the current values of `package.path` and `package.cpath`.

CAUTION: The loop will not synchronously wait on running threads if garbage collected; the application should asynchronously wait on the callback.

entry:: thread entry function, a Lua function or a string of Lua code/bytecode
+
NOTE: It uses `string.dump` to convert the Lua function to bytecode. Nothing will be done about the function's upvalues.

callback(ok, ...):: Called when terminated; common soft error handling interface: returns *ok* status followed by an error message or the function return values (encoded by String Buffers).
...:: arguments passed to the function, must be encodable by String Buffers

== Threadpool abstraction

This abstraction implements a way to distribute operations among multiple threads from the "main" thread. Each thread instantiates the interface to process the work it is given.

I.e. main thread -> split workload -> worker threads -> gather results -> main thread.

=== loop:threadpool(thread_count, interface_loader, ...)

Create a system-thread pool.

thread_count:: number of threads in the pool
interface_loader:: Lua function or code, plain or bytecode, which returns a map of functions (called from worker threads)
...:: interface loader arguments

WARNING: Because each thread will execute the same interface loader, be careful to not use exported shared objects as arguments.

If the interface has an `__exit` function, it will be called before the end of the thread, after the exit of the work loop. It can be used to clean up interface resources.

NOTE: The Lua VM of the thread is closed from the system thread which created the pool.

[#threadpool:call]
=== threadpool:call(op, callback, ...)

Call an operation on the thread pool interface.

The callback can be a coroutine (will call `coroutine.resume` with the same parameters).

op:: key to an operation of the interface
callback(ok, ...):: Called on operation return, common soft error handling interface: returns *ok* status followed by an error message or the function return values (encoded by String Buffers).
...:: call arguments (encoded by String Buffers)

=== threadpool.interface[op](...)

Same as <<threadpool:call>>, but synchronously from the current coroutine. Errors are propagated.

====
[source, lua]
----
pool.interface.test(42)
----
====

=== threadpool:close()

Close the thread pool (send exit signal to all threads). Idempotent.

CAUTION: There are no mechanisms to directly wait on the termination of the threadpool, because only the application knows the context of the work it has to do. I.e. this method should be called when all work is done.
